Do more agents actually help?

If you are a software engineer you have likely heard the term “working agnatically” or “agents” be thrown around recently. Agents are, at least at the time of recording this, all of the rage. Why? Well agents are like you but they never sleep, don’t make simple naming mistakes, cost less, write better code, etc etc etc. There seems like there is nothing agents can’t do from a software perspective. Agents now not only write code, but they also can approve PRs, write Jira tickets, surf the web for you (topic for another time), and generally do every task the internet has to offer. Agents should, in a perfect world, allow you to work much faster which should therefore create massive productivity gains in every company. 

Considering this one must wonder why we don’t see the benefits of this. Sure code is shipping faster but Instagram feels the same. The Nike app hasn’t changed that much. Google is still a search engine. I don’t doubt for one second that agents have allowed more code to be written. Just take a look at this graph:
[https://markcarrigan.net/2026/03/10/claude-code-github-commits-over-time/]
You’ve definitely seen it, or a version of it, before. As these workflows become more popular much more code is being pushed to repos around the world. Now at first glance this is a good thing. People are either becoming much more productive or there are more people pushing code that have never written code before. I, however, offer a counter to the good news. Before AI was created software engineers knew how to code (shocking). They would spend time architecting out a solution, learning about the codebase, and when they felt comfortable the code was actually the EASY part. The cognitive overhead was the understanding of the codebase not the implementation of the code. Weird enough I feel that no one has mentioned that AI removed the easiest link in the chain. Now it is common for a full implementation to happen before the burden of AI’s verbosity is placed on an engineer for review. What this creates is an engineer turned code reviewer. With no reward of actual implementation and because as human’s we unfortunately trust things we shouldn’t, code gets pushed without proper scrutiny.

In addition to that another problem arises. With all of the code being manufactured across different projects no one person can possibly manage to understand the changes being done in each. For example one agent may be implementing new API changes, while another is fixing a UI bug on a separate application, and a third is handling a customer support request. How can I adequately wrap my head around each of these tasks to the level at which I can confidently sign off on the work being done? There are two answers: either slow down, which mitigates the effect of AI increasing productivity, or remove the human from the review loop. The first is highly unlikely to happen because of the stakes of the AI investment while the second feels more likely every day.

Why is this bad? I think the answer to that is I don’t know. I don’t know what secrets Claude might push to the company repository. I don’t know what ways of working it decides to not adhere to. I don’t know why we created 5000 lines of shell script littered with emojis. I don’t know becomes the answer. And ironically in a world where everyone is creating projects that are in search of an answer the engineer behind those products is increasingly in the dark.